rails new [app name]
rails server
rails generate scaffold
rake db:drop
rake db:create
rake db:migrate
rake db:seed
rake db:reset
rake dbconsole
bundle install


STEPS

1. gem install rails

2. rails new [app name] -T

3. bundle install

Directories where all files are located:

    app - Where most code for you application exists.
    bin - Scripts used by rails. We won't be working in here.
    config - Contains configuration and code that will be excecuted when this app is initialized, i.e. startup code and configuration.
    db - Contains code needed to setup and populate the DB.
    lib - General Ruby code that is needed by the app that doesn't fall into the Model/View/Controllers.
    log - Log files. Files generated by a running Rails app that record the operations of the app. We'll be looking at this a lot.
    public - Mix of front-end files, (HTML, CSS, Images), that are mostly generated within your web application.
    tmp - Temp files.
    vendor - Files used for 3rd party libraries that are not gems.

4. Create a database.

    rake db:create

5. Start Rails server [rails server -p [PORT]] default 3000

    rails server

6. generate a Migration and Model for the Articles App

    rails generate model Article title:string author:string date:datetime status:text

7. Status - Add status list - Add to article.rb

  # Valid Statuses
  STATUS = ['not_started', 'in_progress', 'draft', 'approved', 'published', 'cancelled']

8. Check the DB to confirm the existence of the movies table and the above columns

    rails dbconsole

    Control-D to exit the dbconsole.

9.


10. Populated db with seed data

    rake db:seed

10. Create DB Table


11. Create Model


12. Create Migration


13. Create Controller


14. Create View

15. Create ReadME


16. Create HTML Representation of all Articles


17. Create HTML Represnetation of Individual Articles


11. Generate Migration to add attributes to Model

    rails generate migration AddContentToArticles content:text

12. Must perform rake migration

    rake db:migrate

